or question to President Reagan mr.
president I want to raise an issue that
I think has been lurking out there for
two or three weeks and cast it
specifically in national security terms
you already are the oldest president in
history and some of your staff say you
were tired after your most recent
encounter with mr. mr. Mondale I recall
yet that President Kennedy will had to
go for days on end with very little
sleep during the Cuban Missile Crisis is
there any doubt in your mind that you
would be able to function in such
circumstances not at all mr. Truitt and
I and I want you to know that also I
will not make age an issue of this
campaign I am NOT going to exploit for
political purposes my opponents youth
and inexperience
[Applause]
if I still have time I might add mr.
Truitt I might add that it was Seneca or
I was Cicero I don't know wish that said
if it was not for the elders correcting
the mistakes of the young there would be
no state I like to head for the fence
and try to catch that one before it goes
over but I'll go on to another question
mr. speaker mr. president distinguished
members of the Congress honored guests
and fellow citizens today marks my first
State of the Union address to you the
constitutional duty as old as our
Republic itself President Washington
began this tradition in 1790 after
reminding the nation that the destiny of
self-government and the preservation of
the sacred fire of Liberty is finally
staked on the experiment entrusted to
the hands of the American people for our
friends in the press who plays a high
premium on accuracy let me say I did not
actually hear George Washington savor
but it is a matter of historic record on
our way here in Air Force One I was
looking down over the your countryside
out here because most of the way from
Oklahoma I was looking down the clouds
and I could say that it reminded me of a
story but actually I wanted to tell a
story whether anything reminded me or
not was about a fella that was driving
down a country road and all of a sudden
I looked out and there beside him was a
chicken he was doing about 45 and the
chicken was running alongside so he
stepped on the gas he got it up to about
60 and the chicken caught up with him
and was right beside him again and then
he thought was he was looking at him but
the chicken had three legs but before he
could really make up his mind for sure
the chicken took off out in front of him
at 60 miles an hour turned down a lane
into a barnyard well he made a quick
turn and went down into the barnyard too
and it was a farmer standing there and
he asked him he said did did a chicken
come past you yeah well he said am I
crazy or did the chicken have three legs
he says yep it's mine he says I breed
three legged chickens and the fella said
for heaven's sakes why well he says I
like the drumstick ma likes the
drumstick and now the kid likes the
drumstick and we just got tired of
fighting for him the driver said well
how does it taste
he says I don't know I've never been
able to catch one
seriously since thank you very much
thank you all thank you as Henry the
eighth's said to each one of his six
wives I won't keep you long I spoke of
the difference between our two countries
I try to follow the humor of the Russian
people we don't hear much about the
Russian people we hear about the Russian
leaders but you can learn a lot because
they do have a sense of humor and you
can learn from the jokes they're telling
and one of the most recent jokes I found
kind of more personally interesting
maybe you might tell you something about
their country the joke they tell is that
an American and a Russian were arguing
about the differences between our two
countries
and the Americans said look in my
country I can walk into the Nobel office
I can hit a desk with my fist and say
President Reagan I don't like the way
you're governing the United States and
the Russian said I can do that the
Americans said what he says I can walk
into the Kremlin into Brezhnev Sophos I
can pound Brezhnev snez disc and I can
say mr. president I don't like the way
Ronald Reagan is governing
I know that a lot of you've been having
some fun with my advancing years you
even tied my recent surgery to my age
well I got to be honest with you I had
that same operation when I was young and
it felt so good I wanted to have it done
again the board
[Applause]
but I am aware of my age when I go in
for a physical now they no longer asked
me how old I am
they just carbon-date me incidentally
I've got a news item for you we have a
spinoff from our Star Wars research it's
a helmet for me to wear at press
conferences all I do is push a button
and it shoots down incoming questions
you have to admit though that my
attitude is better than linebacker
George atkinson's when he was with the
Oakland Raiders someone asked him what
the players reaction would be if the
press box blew up he said we'd have 30
seconds of respectful silence and then
continue with enthusiasm now honest I
don't feel that way maybe once in a
while Nancy would you like to join me up
here for please
I know it's getting late dear but it's
not often that we have so many people
who've written about us and broadcast
about us all together in one room like
this and I thought you might like to say
a few nice words to them they're all
from the press and radio and television
maybe just a friendly little greeting
would do how about just a word or two
with something friendly even one kind
word I'm thinking I'm thinking seriously
my friends as always we that our share
of laughs tonight at one another's
expense which is as it should be in a
city where the issues are important and
the passions run so deep may be the fun
and good nature of evenings like this is
a good place to start it so thank you
for your hospitality and thank you for
inviting us thank you
thank you
thank you all so very much
in all the 36 anniversaries of my 39th
birthday this is certainly been the most
memorable George Barbra all of you up
here on the top shelf together with me
and all of you ladies and gentlemen I am
enormous Lee touched yesterday is my
birthday 75 years ago I was born in
Tampico Illinois a little flat above the
bank building he didn't have any other
contact with the bank and then
now Here I am sort of living above the
store again and you've already it's kind
of been touched upon here that speaking
of old times you may have heard that
tomorrow is my birthday now you know
about that I prefer to think of it as
the 36th anniversary of my 39th but I'll
be just about due for a midlife-crisis
fact I'm thinking about a career change
drop this political business and see if
I can't do something different like
radio or the movies maybe I'll give
politics another three years this time
of the year always tends to be a summing
up time for me it's been swearing-in
time and the new year every year and a
birthday
the 36th anniversary of my 39th birthday
I always think age is relative
it was once a very famous baseball
pitcher satchel page and no one quite
knew how old satchel was but he still
were throwing that ball and somebody
asked him about that and his wise answer
was how old would you be if you didn't
know how old you were that's how I came
up with 39
well the late Jack Benny had something
to do with that he was 39 for more than
40 years I can't close without one story
about doctors that he will understand
very well have you ever noticed how easy
it is if you were introduced to someone
at a party or a dinner or something and
they and he's introduced as doctor and
then there's always those people that
suddenly start saying doctor I've been
having well we had a fellow in show
business Mosshart the playwright who was
an inveterate along that line and so one
night at a cocktail party in Hollywood
he was introduced to a dr. Jones and
almost immediately he started talking
about I've been having this low back
pain and the fella that introduced them
said Moss dr. Jones is a doctor of
economics and that didn't stop moss at
all he said doctor I was buying some
stock the other day no I don't want to
go on too long this is after all Las
Vegas and outside just a moment ago I
saw a fellow trading ten passes to the
Regan talk for one ticket to frankie
valli I'm mindful too that bringing
things to a good conclusion is always a
tricky business you were told that I was
a sports announcer WH o Des Moines well
back in those days the great evangelist
Amy Semple McPherson was making a tour
of the country holding revival meetings
and one of them in Des Moines now the
station thought it would be a good idea
and enterprising public relations man to
interview Amy Semple McPherson but why
they picked a sports announcer to
interview that noted evangelist I'll
never know but there we stood in the
studio and I asked her several what I
thought were appropriate questions and
then she answered graciously but then
went into a very fervent plea about the
success of her meeting and I sat down
until suddenly I heard her saying good
night to our radio audience and I looked
up at the clock and there were only four
minutes to go well I didn't know enough
about Amy Semple McPherson that I could
put on but I could fill four minutes
so I got up and in those days of radio
and disc jockeys and so forth
I started thanking they noted evangelist
namely simple McPherson and so forth but
I did like this which means get a record
ready and the fell out in the control
room through the window reached out
there was always records around there
for such contingencies and picked one up
and put it on the table and I said
ladies and gentlemen we conclude this
broadcast by the noted evangelist Aimee
Semple McPherson with a brief interlude
of transcribed music I expected nothing
less than the Ave Maria the Millard
brother started singing many of the
moochers wedding day
[Applause]
[Music]
she never did say goodbye she just
slammed the studio doors she she went
out
and by the way on the matter of the INF
treaty I told the Senate not to worry
about verification I told them I'd take
care of it
and while Gorbachev was here I even made
him write a hundred times I will not
cheat I will not cheat
[Applause]
oops
but out during my presidency I've always
emphasized diplomacy but sometimes it
comes to the point you have to use force
in foreign affairs and Here I am
armwrestling general Noriega for Panama
[Applause]
we really enjoyed our trip to China and
were amazed that the population was over
a billion people and as you can see here
the lines are terrible on another trip
the government of Indonesia gave us
these gifts and they're our friends
actually I love this shirt I finally
found something louder than Sam
Donaldson
and speaking of the press remember
during the contra ade vote when the
networks wouldn't let me on the air I
bet you wondered how I finally got my
message out it's no secret that the
press and I sometimes don't get alone in
addition to my standard ploy of using
helicopter noise to avoid reporters
questions I've now added a new method to
avoid questions tear gas I've loved
almost every minute I've been in office
although there were a couple of trips to
the hospital in case you're wondering
what happened here I had just said so
Don you you say you're gonna write a
book
[Laughter]
[Applause]
one of my greatest enjoyment is talking
to the young men and women who defend us
from attack Here I am on top of the
white house listen and the soldiers
explaining where he thinks the next book
will come from
[Applause]
it's fortunate that not everything has
been spilled in these books however I
[Laughter]
mean I hope the environmentalists never
find out about this one we used to fly
Air Force one over Wyoming Lo and shoot
Buffalo from the window but I'll tell
you someone I trust
totally George Bush he's been a
wonderful vice president he'll make an
excellent president and that's why I
endorsed him and why I'll work hard for
him this fall here we are listening to
one of his speeches
you here tonight do good hard creative
work and I respect that too so as we say
our farewells here tonight this salutes
for you
and now
thank you very much but I think George
and I should be applauding you I thought
it would be good to get together now
that we've all rested from our summer
vacations and although it's true summer
vacations aren't always restful you know
that that leads to a story it was a
fellow that was on his way to a mountain
resort and the policeman stopped him and
said did you know that you're driving
without taillights and the driver hopped
out of the car he was so badly shaken
that the officer took pity on him and
said when I wait a minute calm down it's
not that serious and infraction kind of
said it may not mean nuts to you but to
me it means I've lost my trailer a wife
and four kids
I was in Las Vegas some years ago to
address the annual farm bureau meeting
on my way to the hall a fellow
recognized me and asked what I was doing
in Las Vegas and I told him I was there
what I was there for and he said what
are a bunch of farmers doing in a place
like Las Vegas and I couldn't resist
I said buster they're in a business that
makes a Las Vegas crap table looked like
a guaranteed annual income you know
there's a story about a pig and a
chicken they got tired of farm life
decided to find jobs in town they know
sooner arrived in town when a chicken
spotted a sign in the window of a
restaurant it said ham and eggs a dollar
and a quarter a chicken suggested they
go in and apply and a pig said wait a
minute
for you this job only requires a
contribution for me it's a total
commitment you know I can't resist I'm
accused and certainly and some elements
accused me of too much of telling
anecdotes and so forth but I think it
would be appropriate before I say
anything else that one of my favorite
stories about government had to do with
a an employee who sat at a desk and
papers came to his desk he read them and
determined where they were to go and
initialed them and sent them on and one
day a classified document came there but
it came to him so he read it initial
didn't sent it on 24 hours later it came
back to him with a note attached that
said you weren't supposed to see this
erase your initials and initially eraser
but even Howard Baker's writing a book
about me it's called three by five the
measure of a president Mike Mike D verse
in his book said that I had a short
attention span well I was going to reply
to that but what the hell let's move on
to something else
[Applause]
George Bush is doing well George has
been a wonderful vice president but
nobody's perfect I put him in charge of
anti-terrorism and the McLaughlin group
is still on the air but with so much
focus on the presidential election I've
been feeling a little lonely these days
I'm so desperate for attention I almost
considered holding a news conference
I've even had time to watch the Oscars I
was a little disappointed in that movie
The Last Emperor I thought it was going
to be about Don Regan
[Laughter]
[Applause]
now one example is a story they tell you
know you have to wait ten years there
for delivery after you order an
automobile and so if L had finally
gotten the money together and was going
to buy an automobile only about one out
of seven families have them in that
country and he went through all the
paperwork and everything and finally
signed the last paper laid down his
money and then the man behind the
counter said to come back in ten years
get your automobile and the man said
morning or afternoon the fella behind
the counter says well what difference
does it make ten years from now and he
said well the plumber is coming in the
morning I know that some of you were no
beginners when it comes to writing
headlines reminds me a little bit of a
cub reporter you knew that something
would remind me of a story cub reporter
whose first solo assignment was
interviewing a fellow who was just going
to have a birthday that made him the
oldest person in town and he got to the
address it was an older building out of
there all skirts of the city and elderly
gentlemen ushered him in he sat down and
the reporter determined he was the man
and he he said he was there for the
interview and he led right to the matter
about how old are you and the man said
96 said to what do you attribute your
longevity and the fellow said I don't
smoke drink or run around with wild
women and at that moment there was a
crash from upstairs and the reporter
looked up and he said what was that the
old boy said oh that's dad he's drunk
again
you know there was a time but being a
Republican in this area of the country
felt a little bit like being Gary Cooper
in High Noon outnumbered in a big way I
remember the story of the fella here a
while ago who was running for Congress
as a Republican he stopped by a farm to
do some campaigning and when the farmer
heard he was a Republican his jaw
dropped and he said wait right here he
said I want I get MA
she's never seen a Republican before so
he got MA the candidate looked around
for a podium to give his speech from the
only thing he could find was a pile of
that stuff that Bess Truman took 35
years trying to get arey to call
fertilizer so he got up on the mound and
when they came back he gave his speech
end up at the farmer says that's the
first time I've ever heard a Republican
speech candidate said that's the first
time I've ever given a Republican speech
from a Democratic platform
it can be best described in a story I
like three fellas that went out of the
building to get in their car and found
they locked the keys in they were locked
out and one of them said get a wire coat
I had coat hangers we straighten it out
and I can get that the other one says
you can't do that they somebody think
we're stealing the car and the third one
said well we'd better do something
pretty quick because it's raining
starting to rain in the tops down this
this convention brings back so many
memories to a fella like me I can still
remember my first Republican convention
Abraham Lincoln giving a speech that
sent tingles down my spine no I have to
confess I wasn't actually there the
truth is way back then I belong to the
other party seems that 25 of San
Francisco's top bootleggers this is a
little story to illustrate what I've
just said about candor they were
arrested back there in those days of the
Volstead Act and as they were being
arraigned the judge asked the usual
question of course about their
occupation and the first 24 were all
engaged in the same professional
activity each claimed he was a realtor
and then he got to the last one the 25th
and says and what are you yes the last
prisoner and the the fella says Your
Honor I'm a bootlegger and a judge he
was surprised but he laughed and he said
well how's business he said it would be
a lot better if there weren't so many
realtors around
president alphonsine and i have much in
common we both have gone through many
campaigns and asked for votes from many
different kinds of people down in Texas
during the 1976 primary they had me out
knocking on doors and I remember one
kind of rural area I'd been governor of
California but I wasn't all that well
known in Texas and I knocked on the door
and an old fella in his undershirt and
jeans came to the door and I told him I
was running for president and having
been in the occupation I'd been in for a
number of years I was kind of surprised
when he asked me what I'd done for a
living and I told him I'd been an actor
and then he asked me what my name was
and I thought well maybe if I give him a
hint so I said well my initials were RR
and with that a face lit up and he
turned then he ran back into the house
and he was yelling mama come on out here
quick Roy Rogers is outside
[Applause]
so of course asking for help
suggests a certain degree of trust which
reminds me of a story has to do with a
fella that fell off a cliff and he
grabbed a limb on the way down and there
he hung dangling above the rocky canyon
and he looked up and and didn't see
anyone and he finally shouted out oh
lord if you're up there tell me what to
do and a moment later a voice came
booming down from the heavens that said
if you have faith let go well he took
another look down at those rocks 200
feet below and looked up again and says
is there anyone else up there
we're to the fourth cartoon now this one
mmm it's called titled the Great
Communicator but as you can see there's
been some mistake there
they left the balloon blank so I think
that
I forgot what I was gonna say
reminds me a little bit of the story of
the man that took his young son in law
and was going to introduce him to golf
told him all that he had to do and teed
up the ball time the kid took a swing
and he missed the golf ball entirely but
hit a ants nest there and into the air
and so lined up and took a crack at it
and again hit another gouge out of the
ants nest and now that were ants flying
all the way through the air and as he
lined up with a third try two ants
peeked out of the crater that he left
and one of them said if we want to
survive this we better get on the ball
[Laughter]
being a former Democrat myself I know
how difficult it is we're proud to have
you all with us I have to tell you that
I had started working for the party
before I got around to joining it and
one night 1962 state campaign in
California I was speaking at a
fundraiser and a woman stood up in the
middle of the audience and asked me if
I'd rear edge' stirred and I should know
but I I'm going to she said I'm a
registrar she walked right down the
middle I'll put the paper up and I
signed up and then said no where was I
could I just say something here about
this I'm half-irish to the other part is
English and scotch but I just I just
can't help but tell the Union and you
can take this with you for as I'm going
to take this with me at the I was the
visiting Ireland only my father's
ancestors background and community and
so forth and then found myself on Castle
Rock where st. Patrick erected the first
cross and they young Irish guide was
taking us through the old ancient
cemetery and we came to one tombstone
and he proudly pointed out and the
tombstone was inscribed remember me as
you pass by for as you are so once was i
but as I am you too will be so be
content to follow me
and this had proven too much for some
Irish wood who had scratched on the
stone underneath the follow you I am
content
I wish I knew which way you went you
know so much of of what we're trying to
do and so much of this depended on real
communications and I can't resist I've
told this story before and if some of
you've heard it before it illustrates
communications you'll have to forgive me
but life not only begins or lumbago I
should say not only begins at 40 but so
does the tendency to tell the same story
over and over again but I've always
thought of the importance of
communication and how much a part of
plays and what you and I what all of us
are trying to do and one day a former
place kicker with the Los Angeles Rams
who later became a sports announcer
Danny Villanueva told me about
communications he said he'd been having
dinner over at the home of young ball
player with the Dodgers the young wife
was bustling about getting the dinner
ready they were talking sports and the
baby started to cry and over her
shoulder his busy wife said to the ball
players changed the baby and he was a
young felon he was embarrassed in front
of Danny and he said what do you mean
change the baby I'm a ballplayer that's
not my line of work and she turned
around put her hands on her hips and she
communicated she said look buster you
lay the diaper out like a diamond you
put second base on home plate you put
the baby's bottom on the pitcher's mound
you hook up first and third slide home
underneath and if it starts to rain the
game ain't called you start all over
something else I I have to interject
here although this is not an occasion
for humor but I've had a kind of a hobby
lately of collecting by way of
dissidents stories that are told behind
some of those iron curtains and those
iron walls by the people themselves
showing their own cynicism about the
system under which they're forced to
live and one recently that I heard had
to do with three dogs that were having a
conversation an American dog a Polish
dog and and a Russian dog and the
American dog was telling him about how
well he barks and then in our country
the his master gives him some meat and
the Polish dog said what's meat and the
journeyer the Pope the Russian dogs is
what's bark it reminds me of a story in
case you were wondering this is my way
of sliding into a story many of you here
work on east-west trade issues and I
like to collect stories that I can
verify that the Russian people tell
among themselves so I'm going to tell
you this one it's about general
secretary Gorbachev seems that that's
part of the campaign to straighten
things out there in his country he had
issued an order that everyone caught
speeding were seen speeding should get a
ticket no matter how important they
might be one morning he was out at his
country home and realized that he was
running late for a meeting that he had
in the Kremlin and he got into the went
out to get in his car and told the
driver to get in the backseat that he'd
drive and he did and down the street he
went and they passed two motorcycle
policemen and the one of them took off
after him and a little while later he
came back and joined his companion the
other motorcycle officer and the fellow
said did you give him a ticket and he
said no well he said why not when he
said no no he was this was someone too
important well he said we were told to
give it no matter who it was that they
were gonna take no he
it's not that what he said who was it
well he said I don't know I couldn't
recognize him there but his driver is
Gorbachev
[Music]
I have to tell you right here I have
been collecting stories that I can
absolutely establish are told by the
people behind the Iron Curtain
in the communist bloc and they're
stories that reveal their kind of
cynicism about the system under which
they live and one of the more recent
ones that I heard was about the man
walking along the street at night Moscow
Soviet soldier called to him to halt he
started to run the show of soldier shot
him another man said why did you do that
what he said curfew well he said it
isn't curfew yet he said I know he's a
friend of mine I know where he lives he
couldn't have made it slander number
three that does I shouldn't I know but
that does trigger another one of those
stories I've picked up from over there
they came to general secretary Gorbachev
and they told her there was a woman in
the Kremlin she wouldn't leave unless
she could see him so he said we'll bring
her in and they brought her in and he
said old mother what is it what she said
I have a question he said all right she
said was communism invented by a
politician or a scientist what he said a
politician she said that explains it
scientists would have tried it on mice
first
you know there's a story about a young
fella from the city who hired out to
work on a farm during the harvest season
and the first morning everyone was up
well before dawn that new hired hand and
the farmer made their way in the dark
out to the oat field and neither one of
them saying a word and finally the city
fellow asked what kind of oats were they
go to cut wild oats or tame oats farmer
a little surprised said well tame oats
of course why do you ask well he said I
was just wondering why we're sneaking up
on him in the dark there's a story and I
understand it's true it's about a
newspaper photographer out in Los
Angeles kind of reminds me of Howard he
was called in by as editor and told of a
fire that was raging in palos verdes
that's a hilly area in the southern part
of Los Angeles County and the
photographer's assignment was to rush
down to a small local Airport board a
waiting plane go out and get some
pictures of the fire and be back in time
for the afternoon edition well he raced
down the freeway broke all the traffic
laws got to the airport drove his car to
the end of the runway and sure enough
there was a plane revving up its engines
ready to go he jumped in the plane
shouting let's go and they were off at
about 5,000 feet he began getting his
camera out of the bag told the fellow
flying the plane to get him over the
fire so I could get his pictures and get
back to the paper and from the other
side of the cockpit there was a
deafening silence and then he heard
those words he will always remember
aren't you the instructor
you know when I think of the welfare
system it reminds me of a story and I
know some here have heard me tell this
before it may be everybody knows it but
pretend that you haven't heard it
because I like to tell that story it's a
story about the parent with the two
children and two sons and one of them
was a dyed-in-the-wool pessimist and the
other one was an incurable optimist and
they thought they were both so
unrealistic that they talked to a
psychiatrist about it and he said he
thought he could solve the problem and
they said well what well he said let's
get the most magnificent set of toys any
boy ever had and we'll put him in a room
would take the pessimists there and then
we'll turn him loose and when he sees
those toys and knows they're all for him
he'll get over being a pessimist they
said what he could do about the optimist
but he said I have a friend who's got a
racing stable and he said we can get
quite a quantity of what they clean out
of the stable and we'll put that in
another room and when the optimist has
seen his brother get those toys and then
he gets that he'll get over being an
optimist well they did it finally after
a period they then went in and followed
in where the boy was with the toys and
he was sitting there crying and they
said what what are you crying about he
said well I know somebody could have
come and take these away from me and
they went down to the room with the
optimist and he was on that top of that
pile of stuff and he was throwing it
over his shoulder as fast as he could
and they said what are you doing he says
there's got to be a pony in here
somewhere
[Applause]